well the are comparable approach we just
used will certainly work it's not great
so what we're gonna do is make things
better using a built-in interface known
as comfortable so let's start by
thinking about what's not great about
what we just did the first problem is
the strange casting we have to do so if
we look at the compareto method of the
dog class we had to take the object that
was given to us and cast it to dog
before we can get the size and that just
makes the code a little ugly ideally we
don't want castes in our code similarly
in Maximizer when we call the dot max
method we see that it returns an are
comparable and thus if we want to
actually store it in a dog variable we
have to cast okay and make sure you can
think about why that is so in this case
we don't really like this and it'd be
better if we didn't have those features
now the other and actually bigger deal
is that we just made it up
so our comparable is not a real thing
and as a result there are no classes out
there that already implement are capable
so if we tried to use our Maximizer max
method with strings for example they
don't implement our comparable so it
will be useless for those similarly
there are no classes out there that
already do all the things that we want
to do like finding the max finding them
in finding the median that work with our
comparables and thus for everything we
might want to do that involves
comparison we have to write our own max
method on our own men method on our own
whatever else so fundamentally the issue
is we made it up it's not a real thing
and unless you intend to rewrite the
entirety of the java standard library
now with our comparable not gonna be a
very fun time
so our fix actually is going to be
pretty simple and that is we're gonna
take advantage of an interface built
into java called comparable so instead
of our comparable the one you and i
built we're instead going to use the one
built into java and it has one
difference from ours which is that it
takes a generic type and so in this case
this will help us avoid one of our casts
by instead of having to cast this object
to the specific type this will ensure
that everything works beautifully let's
just jump in a triangle so if we go to
our dog class which implements our
comparable now i'm gonna change this I'm
gonna say implements comparable in this
case dog now where did this come from
that's just built into Java Java yells
at us and
says hey there's an issue here you
didn't give the right compareto method
and all it's saying is this should be
dog right so if we look at the signature
this type here needs to match what's up
here so we say compared to dog and I'll
just name it uh dog and we can delete
this line entirely so we've just saved
ourselves a cast that's nice
and that's the dog class right tiny
change now we do have to make a couple
more changes for example it'll actually
just one more I think we go to Maximizer
will see that the Maximizer class
expects comparables or say our
comparables but we'd ultimately like to
be using with comparables instead of our
comparables so I'm just gonna change
this by deleting our no that should work
beautifully and then finally dog
launcher will work properly and so in
this case after we do dog D equals dog
you know Maximizer max dogs we can now
say D bark and hopefully the largest dog
should work it out boom Benjamin says
bark good now we still have a cast here
and if we delete it it doesn't work and
we look and if we look at the message we
see found comparable but require a dog
so that's something we still need to fix
there's another change we need to make
to our Maximizer class I'm not gonna
detail it in this specific lecture but
we'll talk about it in about three
videos but it's just not something I
want to get into right now cuz it's a
bit of a diversion okay so this
alternate approach basically what we do
is instead of using our personally made
of interface known as our comparable we
use the real one comparable dog and as a
result we can now plug into the entire
ecosystem so instead of having to build
our own parallel set of libraries we can
use all the ones that already exist and
use comparable so in effect what we get
out of comfortable is we can use for
example there's tons of classes out
there that implement comparable for
example strings so in principle we can
actually use an array of strings with
this max method and it will work nicely
even better though there are lots of
libraries out there that already used
the comparable interface so for example
max is already written for us as you
might imagine so there's a library
called collection and you could say
collection dot max given an array of
dogs and it will find
largest dog so long as that dogs
implement comparable okay so this
approach here is much nicer as you can
see compared to this approach because it
plays well with the existing libraries
and you'll note it also avoids that ugly
cast so that's basically the scoop with
comparables and in the next video we'll
talk about a very closely related idea
known as a comparator